=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

CPAN Meta Browser

=head1 DESCRIPTION

CPAN Meta Browser is a two-part application for convenient access to metadata
for the CPAN (Comprehensive Perl Archive Network). The first part is a
C<refresh> command which will download this metadata and index it into the
selected backend database. The second part is a web application which provides
search functionality into the indexed database.

  /path/to/cpan-meta-browser.pl refresh
  hypnotoad /path/to/cpan-meta-browser.pl

=head1 INSTALLATION

Perl v5.20.0 or higher is required. Perl dependencies are listed in
F<cpanfile>. They can be installed by running:

  cpanm --installdeps .

=head1 CONFIGURATION

CPAN Meta Browser is configured by the file F<cpan-meta-browser.conf> in the
application home directory. The configuration file is a Perl hash. The
C<hypnotoad> key will be used to configure
L<Hypnotoad|Mojo::Server::Hypnotoad/SETTINGS> if it is used to start the web
application.

There are three backends available for CPAN Meta Browser. The backend can be
set as C<backend> in the configuration file, or C<CPAN_META_BROWSER_BACKEND> in
the environment.

The default backend is C<sqlite> and requires L<Mojo::SQLite>. C<sqlite_path>
may be set to a file path to store the database (must be in a writable
directory, defaults to F<cpan-meta.sqlite> in the application home directory).

The C<pg> backend requires L<Mojo::Pg> and a PostgreSQL server running at least
version 9.6, with the C<pg_trgm> extension. This is usually packaged in the
C<-contrib> package for PostgreSQL and must be installed in the database that
will be used:

    CREATE EXTENSION pg_trim;

C<pg_url> must also be set to a database connection URL in the form
C<postgresql://user:password@host:port/database>.

The C<redis> backend requires L<Mojo::Redis2> and a Redis server running at least
version 3.2.0. C<redis_url> may be set to a database connection URL in the form
C<redis://x:auth@host:port/database> (defaults to C<redis://localhost:6379/0>).

=head1 API

In addition to the browser interface, CPAN Meta Browser provides an API to the
contents of the files it indexes. The endpoints below are relative to the
installation path, such as L<https://cpanmeta.grinnz.com/>. All endpoints
return JSON, and the module and author parameters are case insensitive and trim
surrounding whitespace.

=head2 packages

  GET /api/v2/packages/:module
  GET /api/v2/packages/:module?as_prefix=1
  GET /api/v2/packages/:module?as_infix=1

Retrieves details from the CPAN module index for the specified module name. If
the C<as_prefix> option is enabled, details are returned for all module names
starting with the specified prefix. If the C<as_infix> option is enabled,
details are returned for all module names containing the specified infix.

  # GET /api/v2/packages/Moose
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "module" : "Moose",
           "owner" : "STEVAN",
           "path" : "E\/ET\/ETHER\/Moose-2.2010.tar.gz",
           "uploader" : "ETHER",
           "version" : "2.2010"
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519669561"
  }

  # GET /api/v2/packages/Mojo::UserAgent?as_prefix=1
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "module" : "Mojo::UserAgent",
           "owner" : "SRI",
           "path" : "S\/SR\/SRI\/Mojolicious-7.69.tar.gz",
           "uploader" : "SRI","version":null
        },
        {
           "module" : "Mojo::UserAgent::Cached",
           "owner" : "NICOMEN",
           "path" : "N\/NI\/NICOMEN\/Mojo-UserAgent-Cached-1.06.tar.gz",
           "uploader" : "NICOMEN",
           "version" : "1.06"
        },
        ...
        {
           "module" : "Mojo::UserAgent::Transactor",
           "owner" : "SRI",
           "path" : "S\/SR\/SRI\/Mojolicious-7.69.tar.gz",
           "uploader" : "SRI",
           "version" : null
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519669561"
  }

=head2 perms

  GET /api/v2/perms?author=:author
  GET /api/v2/perms?module=:module
  GET /api/v2/perms?author=:author&module=:module&as_prefix=1&other_authors=1
  GET /api/v2/perms?module=:module&as_infix=1

Retrieves details from the CPAN permissions database for the specified author
CPAN ID and/or module name. If the C<as_prefix> option is enabled, details are
returned for all module names starting with the specified prefix. If the
C<as_infix> option is enabled, details are returned for all module names
containing the specified infix. If the C<other_authors> option is enabled,
details are returned for all authors with permissions for the matched modules,
not just the specified author CPAN ID.

  # GET /api/v2/perms?author=LWWWP
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "author" : "LWWWP",
           "best_permission" : "f",
           "module" : "HTML::Entities",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        },
        {
           "author" : "LWWWP",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "HTML::FormatMarkdown",
           "owner" : "NIGELM"
        },
        ...
        {
           "author" : "LWWWP",
           "best_permission" : "f",
           "module" : "WWW::RobotRules",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519670202"
  }

  # GET /api/v2/perms?author=LWWWP&other_authors=1
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "author" : "ETHER",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "HTML::Entities",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        },
        {
           "author" : "GAAS",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "HTML::Entities",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        },
        ...
        {
           "author" : "MSTROUT",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "WWW::RobotRules",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519670202"
  }

  # GET /api/v2/perms?author=LWWWP&module=LWP::UserAgent
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "author" : "LWWWP",
           "best_permission" : "f",
           "module" : "LWP::UserAgent",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519670202"
  }

  # GET /api/v2/perms?author=LWWWP&module=LWP::UserAgent&other_authors=1
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "author" : "ETHER",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "LWP::UserAgent",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        },
        {
           "author" : "GAAS",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "LWP::UserAgent",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        },
        ...
        {
           "author" : "OALDERS",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "LWP::UserAgent",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519670802"
  }

  # GET /api/v2/perms?module=LWP::UserAgent&as_prefix=1
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "author" : "ETHER",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "LWP::UserAgent",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        },
        {
           "author" : "GAAS",
           "best_permission" : "c",
           "module" : "LWP::UserAgent",
           "owner" : "LWWWP"
        },
        ...
        {
           "author" : "SEKIMURA",
           "best_permission" : "f",
           "module" : "LWP::UserAgent::WithCache",
           "owner" : "SEKIMURA"
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519670802"
  }

=head2 authors

  GET /api/v2/authors/:author
  GET /api/v2/authors/:author?as_prefix=1
  GET /api/v2/authors/:author?as_infix=1

Retrieves details from the CPAN author database for the specified author CPAN
ID. If the C<as_prefix> option is enabled, details are returned for all author
CPAN IDs starting with the specified prefix. If the C<as_infix> option is
enabled, details are returned for all author CPAN IDs containing the specified
infix.

  # GET /api/v2/authors/DBOOK
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "asciiname" : null,
           "author" : "DBOOK",
           "email" : null,
           "fullname" : "Dan Book",
           "has_cpandir" : true,
           "homepage" : "http:\/\/github.com\/Grinnz",
           "introduced" : 1417016502
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519670892"
  }

  # GET /api/v2/authors/XA?as_prefix=1
  {
     "data" : [
        {
           "asciiname" : null,
           "author" : "XACHEN",
           "email" : "...",
           "fullname" : "Justin Cassidy",
           "has_cpandir" : false,
           "homepage" : null,
           "introduced" : 1251852104
        },
        {
           "asciiname" : "Grzegorz Rozniecki",
           "author" : "XAERXESS",
           "email" : "...",
           "fullname" : "Grzegorz Rożniecki",
           "has_cpandir" : true,
           "homepage" : null,
           "introduced" : 1360005262
        },
        ...
        {
           "asciiname" : null,
           "author" : "XAXXON",
           "email" : "...",
           "fullname" : "Zac Hansen",
           "has_cpandir" : false,
           "homepage" : "http:\/\/xaxxon.slackworks.com\/",
           "introduced" : 1133035986
        }
     ],
     "last_updated" : "1519670892"
  }

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is Copyright (c) 2017 by Dan Book <dbook@cpan.org>.

This is free software, licensed under:

  The Artistic License 2.0 (GPL Compatible)

Bundled Perl 5 Raptor Copyright (c) 2012, Sebastian Riedel.

Licensed under the CC-SA License, Version 4.0 L<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0>.
